CLEVELAND STATE UNIVERSITY
CIS 694 – Object-oriented Software Engineer
TEST SPECIFICATION
Project: Restaurant Management System
Presented By:
Group 5
Bhavana Tedlapalli (2808568)
Sravan Kumar Singupuram (2836831)
Riya Patel (2829317)
Calvin Raj Namburi (2836250)
1.0 Introduction
Basically, Testing is the process of executing a program or system with the intent of
finding software bugs, errors or other defects which may cause damage to the project
Stake holders and make sure that system functionalities are tally with user functional
requirements. Shortcomings can be in any Stage of the Software development cycle.
These shortcomings can cause the system to malfunction or cause serious issues in fine
dine. It is important to identify all these errors and fix them before handing it over to the
customer.
1.1 Goals and objectives
The goal of project evaluation is to evaluate the software development process that was
applied during the framework's development, as well as the utility of the tools and
technologies, the precision of the projections, and the value of the reviews. The solution
will be examined and assessed to determine whether it achieves the goals outlined in the
initial overview and for the product's quality.
The evaluation of Restaurant Management System in terms of their ability is to inform
users, including the following aspects:
• Measures for the effectiveness of the system.
• Technological measures for evaluating the system.
• User-oriented measures.
• Feedback.
1.2 Statement of scope
The main objective of this project is to develop a restaurant management system that will
allow restaurants to manage their operations and improve their customer service.
However, the system's central functions are also related to the production of reports.
The creation and deletion of orders, the removal and addition of food workers from a
request, and the closing of orders are all part of the restaurant management process. The
system's database should contain all of the orders placed and relate them to the important
project tasks. Testing and implementation take somewhat longer than planned to
complete.
The user should be able to log in to the website and do the following:
- Add to cart and check out.
- Access the services such as giving testimonials, editing the cart, adding, and removing
items.
- Able to access internet.
2.0 Test Plan
This section describes the overall testing strategy, and the project management issues that are
required to properly execute effective tests.
2.1 Software to be tested
The online websites will be tested in Amazon Web Services. And we can check it from
the admin’s laptop whether the localhost is up and running.
2.3 Testing tools and environment
The test environment for tools is before running the python shell and compiling the
app.py, we need to make sure whether the MySQL database is up and running. And then
we can compile the app.py and wait for the localhost:5000 and the webpage starts
running. There we can login, signup and then go deep into the website to see the Menu,
testimonials and adding items to cart, etc.
Coming to Hardware we need to make sure MySQL and python are installed in the
admin’s laptop and make sure the internet connection is stable.
2.4 Test schedule
A detailed schedule for testing is described. For this application, the waterfall model is
used. So, after the application is created, testing will take place. However, during
development, each developer will carry out unit testing.
3.0 Test Cases
This section enumerates a complete list of test cases for the software. The template of test cases
is as follows in the below table.
Testing such system requires testers to create menu items with different combinations and
validating the changes are pushed correct to the POS system.
